#battery/basics/degradation
1. Studies have shown that the lifetime and performance of lithium batteries are greatly influenced by the charge/discharge cycles of the batteries. The number of cycles over which a battery operates depends on the rate and depth of charge/discharge.
2. The degradation is due to the dendrite growth at the electrode-electrolyte interface. to determine this we need to understand how cycling effects dendrite growth rates and morphology which requires resolution of the chemical-physical processes at the electrode-electrolyte interface.
3. Given the EV batteries, Lithium is performing very well. Also, Li metal anode which has a ten times higher theoretical capacity (3860 mA h g−1) over conventional graphite anodes (372 mA h g−1). However, Li metal is highly unstable in traditional organic liquid or polymer gel electrolyte systems due to the formation of Li dendrites at the electrode-electrolyte interface. 
4. Among the ways in charging batteries, the standard charging scheme is the constant current constant voltage (CCCV) protocol. Other protocols are being investigated to improve charge stored, efficiency and cycle life, including multistage constant current charging, pulsed charging, fast charging, and boost charging. #battery/basics/charging Among the available charging types, pulsed charging seems to have no detrimental effects, and no lithium plating. 
5. Basically dendrite growth is bad, and at a meso-scale level, we use appropriate numerical methods to solve this problem. Similarly with phase-field. #battery/basics/modeling_approaches